# 4.0.0

## Features

Well, you know all of them:

1. Dedicated history and assistant settings instances for projects.
2. Multiple files selection to send to a server as a context of a request.
3. Tokens [approximate] calculation.
4. Tab presentation of a chat and all the features coming along with it for free:
    - a text search, 
    - symbols fast navigation panel 
    - a `super+s` chat saving saving
    - view presentation setup options (see in Default Settings for details).
5. Ability to seamlessly mix different service providers within a single session, e.g. seamlessly switching from `gpt-4-turbo` to `llama-3-8b` running locally for a one request and back for another.

## Claim

This is a really huge update. So is you're happy with it, this is the place and time to [donate me](https://github.com/sponsors/yaroslavyaroslav). 

## Details

### Dedicated history and settings

This is it, you can set up to treat a given project separately, thus give it an abilities of a dedicated chat history and settings/model. To make it even more exiting — you can use entirely different llm providers for a different projects.

To set things up you, please follow the manual in [Readme](https://github.com/yaroslavyaroslav/OpenAI-sublime-text?tab=readme-ov-file#chat-history-management)

### Multiple files selection

Now you can send whole files to a server. UX for that is not that straightforward and I wanted to, but this is what we're working with 💁🏻‍♂️.

So basically you have to make active all the tabs that you want to append to a request and run `[New Message|Chat Model] with Sheets` command. It looks quite wired with more than 4 tabs selected in the meantime, but it's still convenient in some way, means you're able to preview the content of each file to be sent beforehand.

Pay attention, it should be exact Tab, and all of those tabs should be places within a single Group.

To see detailed example, please follow the manual in [Readme](https://github.com/yaroslavyaroslav/OpenAI-sublime-text?tab=readme-ov-file#additional-request-context-management)

### Tokens [approximate] calculation

Finally! The author have studied calculus and now he's able to divide a number by 4. Such a science!

Jokes aside, this implementation is quite raw, but it's still brings the knowledge of how much you've sent to a server already during the session, and to estimate how much you will send there with a very next request (hint: it's a left value).

This feature comes really useful when you're working with expensive models like GPT-4, believe me, I've implemented this when I spent 40$ for a few days on it by blindingly selecting bunch of big files and sending them to a server.

The tokens amounts shows automatically when `AI Chat` tab is active and hidden otherwise.


