## Information

- https://github.com/SublimeText-Markdown/MarkdownCodeExporter package have been released by a third party that is dramatically improves markdown code blocks management. I highly encourage you to install it as a complimentary package to this one.

## 4.2.0 Featues

- New in buffer mode `phantom`
- `stream` toggle for responses brought back
- images handling UX improved
- advertisement logic improved

## Deprecated
- `append`, `replace`, `insert` in prompt modes is deprecated and will be removed in 5.0 release.

## Detaied description

### Phantom mode

Phantom is the overlay UI placed inline in the editor view (see the picture below). It doesn't affects content of the view. 

1. You can set `"prompt_mode": "phantom"` for AI assistant in its settings.
2. [optional] Select some text to pass in context in to manipulate with.
3. Hit `OpenAI: New Message` or `OpenAI: Chat Model Select` and ask whatever you'd like in popup input pane.
4. Phantom will appear below the cursor position or the beginning of the selection while the streaming LLM answer occurs.
5. You can apply actions to the llm prompt, they're quite self descriptive and follows behavior deprecated in buffer commands.
6. You can hit `ctrl+c` to stop prompting same as with in `panel` mode.

### Stream toggle

You can toggle streaming behavior of a model response with `"stream": false` setting in per assistant basis. That's pretty much it, the default value is `true`.

### Images handling UX improved

Images paths can now be fetched from the clipboard in addition to be extracted from the selection in a given view. It could be either a single image path [and nothing more than that] or a list of such paths separated with a new line, e.g. `/Users/username/Documents/Project/image0.png\n/Users/username/Documents/Project/image1.png`.

Please note the parser that is trying to deduct whether the content of your clipboard is an [list of] image[s] is made by AI and quite fragile, so don't expect too much from it.
